We've all had a good nap,
and you're ready to learn about
the great new features we've
added to the Window Manager and
the Menu Manager to make your
applications look great on Mac OS X.
And to introduce you to
all that groovy new stuff,
let me bring out the manager
of the High Level Toolbox team,
Ed Voas.
Alright, so the Window and Menu Managers
are actually pretty important
to every Carbon application.
You need windows, you need menus.
So, what we're planning to do in this
session is kind of lead you through
an overview of all the different
things that we've added to the
Carbon Window and Menu Managers.
Here's a list on this slide,
but we're going to hit each
one of the points individually.
First, sheets.
Sheets are one of the most
visible features of Aqua,
and one of those features which
you actually need to adopt.
It doesn't come for free.
The whole point of a sheet is to
provide a document model experience.
This means that the sheet
makes the document that the
sheet is bound to go modal.
The user can't interact with
the document any longer,
they must interact
with the sheet instead,
but the user can still
deal with other documents,
other windows, and the rest of your
application in general.
To get sheets the easy way,
we have a few APIs.
The first is called
Create Standard Sheet.
And if you're familiar with
Standard Alert or Create Standard Alert,
this is the equivalent
in the world of sheets.
You can also get sheets for free through
Navigation Services and Print Panels
by passing the appropriate parameters
to the calls in those two components.
Or you can create sheets yourself.
To do that, you have to create a window
of KSheetWindowClass.
And this is actually enforced
by the Window Manager.
Once you have this sheet,
you should install the
Carbon Event Handler to handle the
K event window draw content event.
This is important because we
actually need to render the content
before we put the sheet on screen
because we need to do the animation.
So all the bits need to be in place
before we can run that animation.
So it's important to
install that handler.
Once you have your sheet and
you've installed your handler,
you probably want to see it on screen.
And the easy way to do that is
just call Show Sheet Window.
And that API basically takes
the parent window that you
want to bind the sheet to,
and when you call this function,
we do the animation,
we make the sheet appear,
and the Carbon Event Model then knows,
oh, we're in a document modal situation,
and it knows how to deal
with clicks appropriately.
Once you're done with the sheet,
the user has interacted with it,
we call it Hide Sheet Window.
We will do the inverse animation,
make the sheet kind of get sucked
back up into the title bar,
and then you have to remember
that once you've hidden it,
it's just hidden, it still exists,
you still need to dispose that window.
Transparent sheets are actually part
of the Human Interface Guidelines.
You're actually supposed to
be able to see through sheets.
Now that's supported in Cocoa in
the first release of Mac OS X,
but not in Carbon,
but it is something we're working on.
And I'm just making you aware of
this because there's a few rules
that you should follow in order
for us to try to turn this feature
on for free in most situations.
In general, you will probably need to
switch this on manually.
However,
for APIs like Create Standard Sheet,
we want to be able to turn this
on and just have it work for free,
so you don't have to do anything.
You get all the benefits
of transparent sheets.
In order to do that,
we actually have to make
changes to the Control Manager.
As you know, the Control Manager likes
to erase behind controls.
And this presents problems
because when we erase,
we use Quick Draw,
and Quick Draw does not deal with alpha,
and transparency means alpha.
So we did have to make
some changes there.
So the goal is that
Create Standard Sheet will just work.
However, Create Standard Sheet actually
returns the dialog ref to you.
And at that point,
you can actually take that dialog
ref and start inserting dialog items.
So, that may actually work against
the goal of us being able
to turn it on automatically.
So what we ask is that if
you are going to do that,
make sure you add standard controls,
because all of the standard
controls that are supplied by the
toolbox will automatically work in
this new transparent sheet mode.
And if you're running custom controls,
be aware that because
sheets are transparent,
alpha, that whole thing,
you will have to actually render
your controls with core graphics,
Quartz, and not Quick Draw.
So, historically,
we've supported three types of an alert:
the Note, the Caution,
and the Stop Alert.
You'll notice on Mac OS X that
when you call these APIs or
specify these types of alerts,
you actually don't see the correct icon.
At the very least,
you should see the caution icon,
because that's part of our
human interface guidelines.
We are working on fixing that
and doing the right thing.
So it's important for your
applications to not try to
replace the icon yourselves.
Just keep using the constants as
you always have and we'll do the
right thing in a future release.
Window groups are a brand new
feature to the Window Manager.
Historically,
people have done many evil things with
the Window Manager by manipulating
the window list themselves,
doing things that would
probably scare your grandmother.
The problem with that isn't that
they were really doing anything evil.
The problem was that the toolbox
couldn't actually rely on what
it thought the correct state was.
In Carbon, we actually want to be able to
have both the toolbox and your
application play in the same sandbox
and always know the correct state.
So it allows you to actually
change window layering.
It also allows you to change the
way you do window activation.
But...
The most important thing is that
the toolbox is still in the loop,
and we can continue
to do the right thing.
For example, if you click on an
application's icon in the dock,
up comes a pop-up menu,
and in that pop-up menu is a
list of all the document windows.
Well, we need to be able to just call
Select Window on that window,
or Activate Window.
and have it actually do something correct
that your application can deal with,
and we don't trip up your application.
So one of the most common uses
for window groups is to actually
move windows between groups.
And in some sense, you can actually think
of groups as layers.
So we have a document layer,
we have a floating window layer,
and we have like a modal layer.
There are times when applications want to
take a document window and make it float,
or make a floating window not float.
And you can do that through
the Window Group API.
Actually, if you were here yesterday
for the Carbon Event talk,
we showed an application called Magnify.
And part of the preferences there was a
checkbox to allow the window to actually
float above all windows or just be a
floating window in that application.
And the way that we actually make
that switch is through window groups.
So that's one aspect of it.
The other aspect is
the activation aspect.
There are actually times in
certain applications where they
want to make a window active,
and that window is not
the frontmost window.
To accommodate this,
we've implemented a new
API called ActivateWindow.
This basically does the
mechanics of SelectWindow,
and that it actually posts an
Activate event to the window,
but it doesn't actually
change its Z order.
So it'll deactivate whatever the
currently active window is and make
the window that you specify active.
To go along with that,
we have ActiveNonFloatingWindow.
This is what you should
probably use in place of
FrontNonFloatingWindow or FrontWindow.
In fact, it's actually a bad thing to
just use Front Window at all,
unless you really,
really know what you're doing and you
know how to walk through the window list.
There may be times when the system
has windows in your window list,
like for example,
an input method has a window up.
And if you call Front Window,
you're not going to get
your document window,
you're going to end up getting
the input method window.
So you need to be able to code
in such a way that you can
deal with these situations.
One of the best parts about window
groups is that you can create your own.
You can create your own group,
put your windows in it,
and then you can actually do
interesting things like make them
move together or Z-order together.
So treat them almost as one window.
Sheets actually use this.
So when the sheet is bound
to its document window,
it creates a window group,
and then that pairing
of windows acts as one.
When you move the parent,
the sheet moves with it.
When you click on one
or the other window,
they both come forward
or they both go backward.
Overlay windows are our solution to
allow you to actually draw on the screen.
But you're really not
drawing on the screen.
What you're drawing into is a transparent
window at a very high window level,
meaning that it is above the
menu bar and above the dock.
Now, this is really cool.
I could draw all over the screen.
That's great.
But it does have its implications.
For one,
A window that is the size of
the screen at 32-bit on a 10x7
display is going to take 3 meg.
Just because you can't see it
doesn't mean it doesn't exist.
We actually have a back buffer for it.
So it's important to actually
size your windows appropriately
for whatever you're doing.
It also requires core
graphics to do your drawing.
Again, Quick Draw doesn't deal
well with an alpha channel,
so you have to use CG.
And the last thing is it can have
nasty effects on classic windows.
Classic windows are what
we term non-retained.
There is no back buffer for them.
If something obscures it, it's
[Transcript missing]
One thing that we've added is the
concept of automatic window positioning.
Whenever the monitor size changes,
or a monitor size changes,
or maybe the dock appears
because you have it on,
you know,
you turn it on so you want it to show up,
or you've resized the dock,
we will actually go and move
windows around if their title
bars have become obscured.
Now,
sometimes you don't want that to happen,
and you can actually override that.
We send out a K event window
constraint event to all windows
when we're about to do this.
And you can intercept that event by
installing a Carbon Event Handler on the
window and just return no error saying,
"Oh no, don't do anything.
I handled this, even though you really
didn't do anything."
And with the advent of the Dock,
it's a little tougher to actually find
out where you can put your windows.
It used to be,
if you were on the main monitor,
you'd say, "Alright,
I'll subtract out the menu bar height
from the top." But now we have this Dock.
How big is that?
How do I, uh, you know,
how do I subtract its height?
Where do I get the Dock rectangle?
Well, you can't.
But what you can do is called
Get Available Window Positioning Bounds.
This is a new API that we've added.
For any monitor,
for any G device that you hand it,
it will hand you back a rectangle,
which is the legal space
that a window can live in.
So it's important to start using that.
Some of the APIs that we have actually
already take the dock into consideration.
So for example,
resize window or zoom window.
So you don't need to deal
with it in that situation.
We'll automatically handle it for you.
The Window Menu is something new,
and it's completely
supported by the Toolbox.
It automatically tracks
Document Class windows.
And you add it to your menu bar by
calling Create Standard Window Menu.
It hands you back a menu.
You then take the menu and insert
it into the menu bar yourself.
The reason that we don't insert it
for you is you might have different
requirements for where it lives
with your particular menu bar.
All the menu items in the standard menu
are handled automatically by the toolbox,
but you can actually add items to this
menu and not affect the menu adversely.
We drive it completely by menu commands,
so as long as you don't
steal our commands,
we'll just handle it for you.
You can add your own commands,
maybe you want to add a menu item to do
tiling or stacking or whatever you want.
Another thing that we've added though
is this concept of alternate titles.
We have API to set a
Windows alternate title.
And what we use this for,
we use it for like three things.
The first is we will show
it in the Window menu.
The second thing we'll use it for
is when you minimize a window,
its alternate title will show up when you
roll over it with the mouse in the dock.
And the third place you'll see
it is actually in the doc pop-up
when it shows the window list.
The reason for this particular
alternate title concept is that you
may have windows in your application
that all have the actual same title,
but maybe they're showing different parts
of the file system or whatever it is.
You can actually leave
the window titles alone,
but specify an alternate title,
and that's what will show
up in the window menu.
Certainly when you're
looking at a window,
you can pretty much tell, oh,
this is for that, you know,
I'm looking at, you know,
whatever part of the file system
or that part of the file system
or whatever the case might be.
But if you're looking in the window menu,
there's no way to discriminate between
the two or between all of your windows.
So alternate titles allow you
to specify different titles.
So we have a lot of default
behavior in the toolbox,
and we don't allow you
to patch these days.
But we do have Carbon events.
So you can actually customize the
Window Manager to your own desire
by installing Carbon Event Handlers.
And if you look at carbonevents.h,
there are a lot of events
that we send out for windows.
I want to just point out some
of the more common ones that
you would tend to override.
The first is KEventWindowBoundsChange.
Whenever you are dragging a
window or resizing a window,
we will send out
KEventWindowBoundsChange.
It could actually be changing,
but it's a little typo there.
And you can actually use
this to do window gridding,
snap to behavior.
We can have pallets snap together
or to the edges of the screen.
That would be the most
common use for that.
The next one is K-Event
Window Get Click Activation.
This allows you to do click-through.
Whenever the toolbox detects a click on
a window that is not the front window,
not the active window
in your application,
we will send this event to it, asking it,
"What should we do?
How do you want to handle this?
We just got a click.
Should we bring you forward
or not?" There are a couple of
results that you can return.
To do click-through,
you would basically say,
"Don't activate me,
but I do want to handle the
click." This is how you can
accomplish background dragging.
Dragging from a window that's in
the background onto some window
that's in the foreground without
that window coming forward first.
The next event is Kevent
Window Handle Content Click.
If you're using the
standard window handler,
this is the way you would intercept
clicks on your own custom content.
This is essentially,
what it does is it represents
a click that is not in any
toolbox entity that we know of.
It's in effectively some
other region of the window.
So if you have like custom views,
but you have standard controls,
the standard controls would
actually be handled by the toolbox,
but you can handle your custom views
just by intercepting this event.
And it's effectively a mouse down event.
It has all the same parameters.
Now the toolbox, as I said,
has a lot of default behaviors.
And for example,
we will actually zoom windows for you.
When we do that,
we need to know information.
Like,
what is the ideal size of the window?
So when a zoom is detected,
and we're about to do a zoom,
we will actually send the window a
K event window get ideal size event.
In response to that,
your application should say, "Oh,
I should be so big."
Store that back into the event,
and then the toolbox
can do the right thing.
Likewise, for a resize window,
when we are about to resize,
we will send out a
KEventWindow.getMinimum
and getMaximum size.
You just tell us what
those constraints are,
and we'll do the right thing with it.
This next slide is about a feature
that we're going to attempt to turn on
in the next major release of Mac OS X.
The reason that I'm bringing it
up though is because I want to
kind of get you ready for it.
Server-side window dragging.
What that means is that the
window server is in control of
dragging the windows around.
Cocoa already does this.
We're going to turn this on in Carbon.
The advantages are first that
we don't actually have to keep
talking to the Windows Server.
So right now what happens is we get a
mouse move while we're tracking a window,
and we say, "Okay,
move the window." We tell
the Windows Server,
"Move the window." It sends
us another mouse move event,
and we keep this back and forth traffic
as you're dragging a window around.
It's kind of a lot of crosstalk.
So we want to eliminate that.
The next thing is that if your
application is just stopped dead,
something's happened,
you're in a tight loop or you
just went away for a while,
the user can still move the
windows of your application.
You don't have to be
actually handling that.
And this is kind of useful at times.
This also has an effect that it
actually makes your application
seem much more responsive.
The reason is, let's say your application
was swapped out.
He's got a lot of applications open
and we had to swap your app out.
So then we click on it,
he needs to swap it back in.
And normally we'd have to swap back
in all the code that had to deal with
dragging and all of that fun stuff.
Because the Windows server is in control,
we can actually start to
drag the window immediately.
So rather than seeing a big delay before
the window started to follow the mouse,
the window would actually
start moving immediately.
And this has a profound impact
on the user because they
feel like they're in control,
you know,
the system's keeping up with them,
and it's rather important.
Now the reason that I'm talking
about this at all is because it's
going to require changes to WDEFs.
What we want to do is
give a window definition
The coordinate system that starts at 0,
0, not at the global coordinates
that the window is.
So if you are writing WDEFs,
you will need to be aware
of this when this happens.
Now, we're not going to break
any existing WDEFs,
but it will mean that if the WDEF does
not support this server-side dragging,
we can't turn it on for your application.
Now, you're going to have to turn
this on manually if you're doing
the window dragging yourself.
If you are using the
standard window handler,
this will be turned on for free.
Again, provided that the WF supports it.
Custom WDEFs are still supported.
For any WDEF that we need
to reference in a resource,
like a wind resource,
you can register the resource ID.
with the toolbox along
with the PROC pointer,
which implements the def.proc
with register window definition.
If you happen to have,
or you happen to start writing
a Carbon Event based DefProc,
you would use Registered Toolbox Object.
And then you just use
Create Custom Window,
and your custom window runs,
and it's all good.
Now, what I'd like to do is show you
a little bit about the stuff
that we just talked about,
and to do that,
I'd like to bring up Guy Fullerton.
But I do have to remind Ed that
I won the last game last night,
so... That was luck.
not always a target.
First demo I want to show you
guys has to do with window groups.
One possible use you might have for
window groups is if you have just a
window that happens to display little
subwindows for editing purposes.
Like let's say this is a very,
very primitive mail application
that needs a way to add a
name to an address book.
And it happens to pop up
a little subwindow here,
which is implemented as
another window manager window.
Now you can type in there and all,
but with window groups,
we actually allow you to tie those
two windows together so that you
can drag them around together and
have them z-order together properly.
And another cool thing about window
groups is they're totally arbitrary.
You can set up whatever groups you
like and you can include or remove
windows from them as you wish.
So I've got these four windows
that as you saw just then as
I was clicking on each of them,
they activated separately.
Now that I have them
all grouped together,
they activate together
just as you would expect.
And you can drag them together
And they minimize together
just as you would expect.
So the next thing I want to show you
is some of the overlay window support.
One thing you might want to do
with overlay windows is give the
user a way to sort of draw on
arbitrary parts of the screen.
So this Event Horizon application
has overlay support built into it,
and I just turned on the
overlay window for this app,
so I can start to scribble
wherever I want over the screen.
I can scribble over the dock.
I can scribble over finder icons,
do whatever I want.
You could even use it as sort
of a primitive coach marking
mechanism if you wanted to.
Oh, oh, oh.
We might have just gotten
ourselves in trouble.
Well, I guess that would be
me that got in trouble.
Oh, no, okay.
It worked out.
Let's close that window.
Now,
another use for overlay windows might
be if you're an alien race that wants
to invade the planet and you need to
throw a message up on somebody's screen.
You could also do that just in one shot.
So one of the other things
Ed mentioned is we've been working on
transparent sheet support for Carbon.
And what I'm running here
isn't exactly Mac OS X GM.
We've got some bleeding-age
pieces in there,
and I want to show you the
progress we've been making.
This application is simpler text.
I showed this off yesterday.
It's just a replacement for simple text.
And it uses the standard
Nav Services Save/Don't Save dialog.
But on the system,
we've enabled transparent sheets.
So if I try to close the window,
you can see that the sheet
really is transparent.
It uses all the standard
control manager controls,
and it just works when we turn that on.
Now, I showed this app yesterday.
This is Live Buttons.
The cool thing about this actually
has to do with the fact that we
install Carbon event handlers
to allow you to manipulate an
otherwise static user interface.
And while we were
writing this application,
it brought to the forefront one
of the really major problems
with the control manager.
And that is that if you have peer
controls that happen to overlap,
you get--let's do this too--
You get some really strange behaviors
with the interface where whatever
control you happen to click on last
is what sort of owns the draw area,
and you get really ugly looking graphics.
And in fact,
let's say you try to throw a picture
into the background of that window.
Not only do you get the...
[Transcript missing]
Oh, you know what?
I'm clicking on text at that point.
If I click on it over here,
you can see that just
the picture highlights,
none of the other controls highlight.
All the animation just works.
You still have a spinning progress
arrows drawing on top of the OK button.
So this is something that
you can look forward to in a
future release of Mac OS X.
And now I'm going to send it
back to Ed to talk a little
bit about the Menu Manager.
So obviously the first bit of
that that you'll see would be the
transparent sheets and later on
we'll actually make that a general
purpose thing that anybody can use.
So the Menu Manager.
We made quite a few changes
to the Menu Manager as well.
First,
you can have icons for menu titles.
Oh yes, believe it.
Next thing is we support Indication
and Menu Section support.
A good example of this
is the Recent Items menu,
which is under the
Apple menu in Mac OS X.
You can actually do this.
We support it fully in the Menu Manager.
You don't have to write a custom MDEF.
We have much better command ID access.
So command IDs are a way
to identify a menu item,
which is a position
independent method of doing so.
And that's great,
but you actually want to manipulate those
menu items using the command ID as well.
And we have full support
for doing so with Carbon.
We support ref counting.
Dynamic Items.
This would be if you have a particular
menu accelerator in your menu and you
want it to actually change the text
depending on what modifier keys are down,
we support that.
We actually have, and we also have much
better hierarchical support.
Historically,
what you've done is you insert your menu,
your hierarchical menu,
into the hierarchical menu list using,
you know, insert menu negative one,
and then you reference that
by putting the ID of that menu
into the actual parent item.
Well,
we've come up with a slightly better way,
which is you just take the menu ref
and you set it on the parent item,
and you're done.
You don't have to play
those games anymore.
We also support certain Carbon Events.
The first is Begin and End Tracking.
Whenever the mouse goes down in the
menu bar and we are about to call,
or basically when Menu Select is called,
is what it comes down to,
when we start Menu Select,
we send out Begin Tracking.
When we end Menu Select,
we call End Tracking,
and we send that event out.
And this might be useful if you
have timers which are firing
but you don't want them to
fire while the menus are down.
You can actually disable them by
looking for this notification.
We also have a really cool event
called K-Event Menu Opening.
And you can do this for
lazy construction of menus.
Let's say you had a hierarchical
menu and it showed part of
a file system or something.
You don't necessarily want to
populate it all up at once.
That might be kind of intensive.
So what you can do is wait for
K-Event Menu Opening and then
go out to the file system,
fill in the menu,
and then it will be displayed
with those contents.
And lastly,
we have what is the direct replacement
for the menu hook function:
KEVENT_MENU_TARGET_ITEM.
So whenever you are rolling over an item,
we will send this event out,
and you can use that notification
to maybe put up some contextual
help or whatever you need to do.
[Transcript missing]
And it supports commands.
Like I said,
we have much better command ID support.
Part of that involves dealing with
enabling and disabling menu items.
Whenever a menu is about to be
shown for every item in the menu,
we send out kevent command
update status events.
That's your time to say update the text,
add a check mark,
whatever you want to do.
Now, like I said,
we do that for every item in the menu.
So that could potentially be a
lot of different update status
commands that we're sending around.
Your application might
want to do it all at once,
and you can do that by intercepting
the KEVENT_MENU_ENABLE_ITEMS event.
In fact, the default toolbox response to
an unhandled ENABLE_ITEMS event
is to send out update status
for every item in the menu.
So maybe your application
architecture only works based
on a per-menu enabling strategy,
so that's the event that
you would tap in for that.
It's actually important that
WaitNext event-based apps
respond to these events as well
as pure Carbon event-based apps.
And the reason is that if you happen to
have event handlers in your application,
they will be called while you
are inside WaitNext event.
Typically what would happen in the past
is you'd exit from Wait Next Event,
find out you had a keyboard
event or maybe a mouse event that
happened to be in the menu bar,
and then you would go and update
the status of your menu items.
Well, because we're dispatching
this inside of WaitNextEvent,
you don't necessarily get that chance.
So it might be that it
usually hits a command key,
That item is enabled
currently in the menu bar.
We will actually go and call
a command handler for that.
It might not even be the effect
that you want because it might
actually be the quit command.
So your application may end
up getting a quit Apple event
and you didn't expect it to.
So in those cases you need to make
sure that you're dealing with enabling
and disabling the items appropriately.
Back in traditional Mac OS,
we dealt with the Edit menu
in a very interesting manner.
Basically,
we had this thing which kind of looked
for any window as they were coming up.
It was like a JG&E filter,
and we'd see a new window and go, "Oh,
a new window.
Is it a dialog?" And then we'd say, "Oh,
yeah, it's a dialog.
Is there a text field?" They'd go, "Yes,
oh, good.
Great.
Then let's deal with the Edit Menu.
Where is it?" "Oh, I don't know.
Go scan the menu bar for anything
with an X or a V next to it."
That must be the Edit Menu.
That has some negative
connotations in that,
first off, it pulls like crazy,
and we don't want to do that in Mac OS X.
Second off, it's just bad code,
and we don't want that.
So, we already had this mechanism,
which was the command ID mechanism.
It's the right mechanism.
So, it's actually important that
for your edit menus in Carbon,
you use the standard command IDs that
we've put into carbon-events.h.
It doesn't hurt anything if
you're not using the command
IDs for your application at all.
It doesn't hurt you,
but it allows us to at least
find them in the menu bar.
And this is important,
particularly when we put up dialogues,
because the dialogue manager still wants
to deal with the edit menu appropriately.
And actually, it's not even the dialogue
manager these days,
it's the individual edit text controls.
Because they are the focus,
they get to control the
edit menu appropriately.
And lastly, it's important to note that
these update status commands can
actually be sent out at any time.
It's not just, "Oh,
there was a key down," or "There
was a mouse down" in the menu bar.
It might have been some
programmatic change of the
window ordering or something.
Maybe somebody called Select Window,
like the Toolbox.
When that happens,
if you had a focused edit text control,
which was only in the Edit menu,
and now you're in a
window which has no focus,
the Edit menu should
actually be disabled.
So the toolbox will actually
in that case detect,
"Oh, I need to, you know,
the focus has changed.
I need to go and dirty the menu bar."
So when it sees that it's dirty,
it will actually send out
these update status commands.
So be aware that they could
be flying at you at any time.
The Apple and Application menus
are one and the same on Mac OS 9,
but they're different on Mac OS X.
The Apple menu just exists on Mac OS X.
It's always there, omnipresent,
staring at you, watching you.
But the Apple menu on Mac OS 9 is
the Apple menu that you always knew,
while on Mac OS X it becomes what
we term the application menu.
It's the menu with the
name of your application.
You should continue to insert
your Apple Menu into the
Menu Bar just like you always have.
Basically, it's the placeholder.
It's the place that you put your
About item and whatever other items
that you've historically put there.
So you want to keep doing that.
And like I said, on 9,
it just is the Apple Menu like
you always knew it.
And on 10, it's the Application Menu.
Most of the items in these
menus are handled automatically.
The exceptions are really
quit and preferences.
These are commands that
you need to deal with.
Obviously, if the user selects Command Q,
they want to quit your app,
you should probably respond
and quit being so stubborn.
For preferences,
the user wants to change some
aspect of your application,
the way it works or whatever.
You need to respond to that.
By default,
the Preferences item is disabled.
So it's actually up to your
application to enable it.
And you can do it by Command ID.
We supply the Command ID in
carbonevents.h.
And you can also enable and disable
the Quit menu item however you
need to via Command ID as well.
Now don't let the first bullet scare you.
I mean, we don't by default
have a Help menu there.
However, if you call hm get help menu,
we will automatically insert one.
If your application happens to specify
a help book in your Info.plist,
we will automatically create
the help menu for you as well.
As in the past,
you can just add menu items
as you see fit to this menu.
For any menu items that you add,
you will get the commands for them.
You can just install a command handler.
For any items that the
system has installed,
we'll handle them automatically.
Well, that was short.
That was because they dropped
a couple of my slides out.
Either that or I talk too fast.
So the bottom line here is we've done
a lot of work in the Menu Manager.
We've done a lot of work
in the Window Manager.
The Window Manager, just think about it.
I mean, we've taken it from a system
where everything was non-retained,
we had to deal with
damage repair ourselves,
all of these other things,
to a system where we actually
have window buffering,
which was the slide that was missing,
by the way.
And, I mean,
we've just added window groups,
we have overlay windows,
and the Window Manager is actually
in such a state these days that
we can start adding new window
classes at a very fast pace.
The entire code base of the high-level
toolbox is in great shape these days,
and we're making constant improvements.
And especially with the
advent of Carbon events,
you know, mixing in with that,
we can actually just
start going wild now.
So now is the time that it's
really getting exciting.
You should look at carbonevents.h as
always if you're looking to override
a lot of the window behaviors,
menu behaviors.
And it's important to go
import your application.
That's why you're here.
You're trying to learn about Mac OS X.
We're trying to tell you all we can.
We're trying to help you along.
So with that,
I'd like to bring Mark Turner back out,
take you through roadmap,
and then we'll do Q&A.
Thanks.
Thank you, Ed.
So coming up tomorrow morning,
we have Controls and Appearance
1 and 2 back-to-back.
[Transcript missing]
This is me.
My job is to help you adopt
Carbon and get your apps to Mac OS X.
So if you have questions,
either today or after WWDC, email me.